# 1.1 Getting started

Computer science is a tremendously broad academic discipline. The areas of globally distributed systems, artificial intelligence, robotics, graphics, security, scientific computing, computer architecture, and dozens of emerging sub-fields all expand with new techniques and discoveries every year. The rapid progress of computer science has left few aspects of human life unaffected. Commerce, communication, science, art, leisure, and politics have all been reinvented as computational domains.

The high productivity of computer science is only possible because the discipline is built upon an elegant and powerful set of fundamental ideas. All computing begins with representing information, specifying logic to process it, and designing abstractions that manage the complexity of that logic. Mastering these fundamentals will require us to understand precisely how computers interpret computer programs and carry out computational processes.

These fundamental ideas have long been taught using the classic textbook Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (SICP) by Harold Abelson and Gerald Jay Sussman with Julie Sussman. This text borrows heavily from that textbook, which the original authors have kindly licensed for adaptation and reuse under a Creative Commons license. These notes are published under the Creative Commons attribution non-commericial share-alike license version 3.

## 1.1.1 Programming in Python

In order to define computational processes we need a programming language, we will use Python.
